+++
title = "The year that was: 2025"
description = "The Chinese year of the Snake proved to be a good one for me…"
date = 2026-01-07
[taxonomies]
tags = ["2025", "annual review", "markdown", "travel"]
+++

The Chinese year of the Snake has been a good one for me. I wonder what the year of the Horse holds in store. Maybe it’s best not to know.

On the whole 2025 was good. I launched a new website, [The Markdown Handbook](https://md-handbook.com), and began writing a travel blog (to be announced). Oh, and my late-life career as a gardener finally took off. For most of my life I have been a freelance; being your own boss, there’s nothing better.

I also returned to the dentist, which ended up a good thing when the dentist removed a tooth that was the cause of a recurring tooth abscess. That came as something of a relief after my last visit – back in my 20s – to what I will always remember as the ‘Butcher of Buckingham’. She was at least part of the reason I have stayed away from dentists for much of my life. 

My wife and I also gently resumed our travels after nine long years, due in the main to a house move and the emergence of Covid. We visited Spain – a first for us – followed a few months later by a trip to our friend’s farm near Lexington in Kentucky.

The one negative that came out of last year was my wife slipping on my freshly mopped floor. She broke her elbow, which remains a frustration for her because there’s still another two weeks to go before she can drive again. She has yet to apologise for the dirt marks she left on my nice clean floor.

As to 2026, I suppose the first thing I need to do is find an open-source form of analytics to add to my various websites. This site used to rely on Piwik for its analytics. But Piwik sold out to Matomo and the free tier ended. My websites are under 50,000 views per month. If anyone has any suggestions, please drop me an [email](mailto:info@wordius.com?subject=Analytics).